---
title: "Herbfarm"
date: "2002-01-12"
tags: 
  - "northwest"
---

**Herbfarm**

Well we had our Herbfarm dinner last night. Quite an experience, we can see why this place has a national reputation. The owners are passionate about their restaurant and they create a real event, almost a festival atmosphere.

The restaurant is in a beautiful building. A gorgeous dining room, a large open kitchen, an attached wine cellar, all in french country style.

We sat down at 7pm and got up a little after midnight. The food list (none of these huge servings):

\- Sauteed Oyster with Sorrel Sauce - Quail Egg Benedict with Cured Salmon and Watercress Sauce - Perigord Black Truffle & Leek Tart - Celery Root & Oregon White Truffle Ravioli - Alaskan Side Stripe Shrimp in Truffled Garlic Sabayon with Fennel Tempura and Apple Slaw - Seared Duck Foie Gras and Perigord Truffles with Yellow Finn Potatoes, Briased Endive & Shallot RIngs - Sorbet of Douglas Fir - Thyme-grilled Squab with Oregon Black Truffles, Lentils, Bloomsdale Spinach and Golden Beets - Juniper Grove Goat Cheese Buche with Charlotte of Spice Bread & Tart Cherry Chutney - Wild Huckleberry Souffle with Rose Geranium Sauce - Armagnac, Thyme & Prune Ice Cream Crepe with Maple-poached Pears - Chocolate Eclair with Lavender Praline Cream - Assorted chocolate Truffles

And we had 6 different wines - 97 Argyle Brut, 2000 Matthews Cellars Semillon, 99 Adelsheim Clone 76 Chardonnay, 98 Beran Vineyards Estate Pinot Noir, 94 Chateau Sainte Michelle Artist's Series Meritage, and an 1875 Barbieto Malvazia Madeira.

It was quite an adventure. We had more fun than we anticipated, the service was amazing and friendly, and we were seated close enough to other tables to talk with other diners (a couple who had driven 7 hours from Missoula for the dinner).

To our surprise I think we liked the Foie Gras the best of all the dishes. But they were all fascinating.
